## September 2, 2020

---


### Charge Conservation

The net charge of a system is the algebraic sum of its constituent particles.

Electric charge is conserved: The net charge of a closed region remains constant.

* Charged particles may be created or destroyed in pairs of equal and opposite charge. The net charge always remains the same.
* The SI unit of charge is the *couloumb* (C)
  Equal to approximately 6.25 x 10^18 elementary charges


##### Isolated System:

Net charge will also be the same.  

Come in pairs


##### Charge Demos

Braun Electroscope
has an insulated bar that holds a needle.



Glass Rod (Positively charge)

Wood dowel: Has equal number of positive and negative charges. It is attracted to both positive and negatively charged items. This is because. This is because it polarizes the same charge to the opposite end of the rod, leaving the opposite charge that it attracts to.



### Coulomb's Law and the Electric Force

Liek charges repel, and opposite charges attract, with a force that depends on:
* The product of the two charges
* The inverse square of the distance between them
The electric force that a charge--

### The Superposition Principle

The Electric force obeys the superposition principle.

That means electric forces add vectorially:
* The force that charge q_1 ----


### The Electric Field

The electric field at a point in space is the force per unit charge that a charge q placed at that point would experience: E = F/q

The force on a charge q is an electric field is F = qE

The electric field is analogous to the gravitational field, which gives the force per unit mass.


Positive charge = vector lines point away (source)

Negative charge = Vector lines point toward (sync)


### Fields of Point Charges and Charge Distributions

The field of a point charge is radial, outward for a positive charge and inward for a negative charge

E_point charge = kq/r^2 * r

### Electric Field/Force Vector Practice:

1. What are the electric field vector and magnitude at field point 3i + 6j created by a 5.5 uC electric charge located at 13i + 8j.

2. What are the electric force vector and mangitude of 
