## March 09, 2020

---

### Exam

Doing review today. Exam is not bad.

No class Thursday

### Final Project

Requirements:

Has to be JavaFX GUI application that has the following:
- 6 types of javafx nodes
- 2 types of panes
- Animation, Timeline, or FadeTransition
- events
- Bindings (at least one)
- Listeners
- Server-Client, Client-Client connectivity

Suggestions:

- Chess
- Sudoku
- Web Browser


### Midterm Review

###### Single Inheritance vs Multiple Inheritance

Allows a subclass to extend a super place.




###### 3 Pillars of Object Oriented Programming:

Encapsulation, inheritance and polymorphism

###### Usefulness of polymorphism

Helps avoid repeating code. Allows for structure by utilizing parent/child object relationships.

- When you call an object's constructor, you automatically call its parent's constructor

- Super can be used to call the constructor of parent. Super must be in the first line.

###### Downcasting an Object

Changing an object type from a parent to a child, but this is dangerous since a parent will not have the methods and parameters of child.

Upcasting Objects and downcasting method calls is much more common.

###### Java GUI progression

Swing aimed to work across any platform but looked the same everywhere.

AWT uses native UI elements but you need to have operating system specific code.

JavaFX had the advantage to see what was good and bad in Swing/AWT.

JacaFX supports CSS styling


###### Listeners

Implimented as funcitnoa interface. (Lamda)

###### Listens vs events

Events are generated by nodes that users interact with.


###### Functional Programming in Java

You can do functinoal programming in Java with Functional Interface.
