# September 1, 2021

## Computing System Categories

#### Hardware

CPU, Memory, I/O

#### OS

Coordinates the use of hardware

Provides an interface for users/applications

#### Applications

Way system used to solve problems

#### Users

People, other machines

## How the components interact

User <-> Application Programs <-> Operating System <-> Hardware

## User View

#### What are users concerned with when they use a machine

- Ease of use
- Speed
- Battery

## System View

- Resource Allocation
- Managing conflicts
- Efficiency

## What is an Operating System? 

Kernel - Part of OS that is always running. 

Some see the OS as 'Everything that ships with my computer'

The point is that the definition of an OS is vauge. 

Our Definition: An OS is a Resource allocator and controls programs. 

## Computer System Organization

Basic Components: 
- CPUs
- Devices/Device Controllers (Driver)
	- Controller - software interface
- Shared Memory
- Common bus

## Computer System Capabilities

Note: Concurrency gives the appearance of two things happening at the same time. Parallelism is when things are actually doing multiple things at once. 

Concurrent Execution: CPU and device controllers. When there is a shared bus, only one thing can be happening at once but we can get the appearance of multiple things happening at the same time
 
Device controllers do have a buffer that can be used to store instruction. 

CPU Moves data between devices

Interrupt Driven

## Interrupts

An analogy might be that a CPU is like a parent. If they are in the middle of a task and their baby starts crazy, they may step what they are doing to tend to them, depending on its priority. Some cries are more concerning than others. Some may be able to wait. 

Implemtnatation:
- Interrupt Vector (IV): Array of addresses services routines 
- Interrupt Service Routines (ISR): Instructions executed for a specific interrupt. 
- Interrupt Request Line: CPU checks this after every instruction (Very fast, but example of overhead). CPU needs to process the interrupt if there is a request. 

Before sending an interrupt on the bus, you need permission from the CPU. There is a wire from the devices directly to the CPU that allows it send interrupt. 
