# September 20, 2021

---

## Microkernel

Developed in the mid 1980's

Organization called 'Mach' wanted to take some aspects out of the kernel and minimize it. Some things like 'Application Program', 'File system', and Device Driver. Kernel is then limited to
	- Introprocess Communication
	- Memory Management
	- CPU schedulding
	
Pros: 
	- Very fast (for things inside the kernel) and very small
	- Extending the kernel is very easy. 
	- Increased security
	- Easy to port

Cons:
	- Poor performance when communicating with things outside of the kernel. 
	- Context switching
	
Microkernel example: MacOS (formerly OS X). It is based on the Mach microkernel. 

## Modules

Linux often uses Loadable Kernel Modules (LKM)

Modules are loaded at boot time

Ex - Can change up the file system

	
## Hybrids

Most OS's use some type of hybrid aproach and pick and choose features. 

Linux uses this
- Monolithic - kernel is in a single address space
- Modular - functionality is dynamically added to the kernel. 

## Bootup 

2.9.2

BIOS - Basic Input Output System
	- Small program stored on a non-volatile chip
	- Lods the bootstrap program
	- MBR
		- Lives the hard drive
		- Stores the bootstrap program
	- Bootstrap pulls the OS from HD into memory
	- Limitations
		- 16-bit mode (Very limited on the amount of data it can hold)
		- Text-based interface
		- HD limitation of 2.1TB
		- Initialize one HW device at a time
		- Multi-step processes
		- Security Concerns

UEFI - Unified Extensible Firmware Interface
	- 32 or 64-bit mode (Much more space to do things)
	- GUI interface
		- Mouse
	- Initialize multiple HW devices at once
	- Networking - remote troubleshooting 
	- Larger HD (xetabytes)
	- Checks the OS for validity
	- GUID PT - Replaces the MBR
		- Globally Unique ID partition table. 
		- Boot process is contained throughout the HD
		
		
## Process Concept

History
	- Processes were called 'jobs' previously. 
		- Batch systems
	- Time Shared Systems were introduced.
		- Multiple programs could run on the same system. 
		- context switching
		- During this period, processes were called 'tasks'
	- Most recently, activities on a computer switch between user and kernel and are called 'processes'
		- Job scheduling - realy process scheduling
		
Terms
	- Program - Passive. An executable sitting in storage
	- Process - Active. Running in memory. Using or waiting for memory
	
Organization
	- What is a process? Its a data structure
	- Stack | -> <- | Heap |  data | text |
		- Text - executable code
		- Data - global variables/resources
		- Heap - Dynamically allocated memory
			- Stores things like Objects
		- Stack - Temporary storage of activation records created with a function callf
		
	- There is a user and kernel mode stack
		- Kernel stack executes kernel mode instructions for the process. 
		- kernel is very secure

## Process States

New: Proces is created

Ready: Process is waiting for the CPU for assignment


## September 24, 2021

---


	

		
