# November 29, 2021

## Security

Any system can be a target
    - ANY SYSTEM

### Motivation to target security 

Personal Gain

Monetary Gain

CPU cycles 
- To use other resources other than your own. 
- Crypto mining for example

Blackmail

Trill/boredom

### Terms

Secure - All system resources are used and accessed as intended under all circumstances
- Has a bunch of different definitions
- This is impossible
- What secure means is defined by a policy
    - This is to say that 'as intended' has to be defined as policy

Violations - Misuse of system/used in an unintended way
- Doesnt have to be malicious to be considered to be a violation

Attacker - Intruder, cracker, hacker, blackhat, bad person --> Person doing the violation. 
- Again, doesnt have to be malicious to be considered an attacker
- Can be a person, entity, or system. 

Threat - The potential for a security violation

Attack - An actual attempt of a security violation

Vulnerability - A weakness in a system

Exploit (verb) - The act of compromising a vulnerability
- Can ONLY happen if there is a vulnerability. An attack may not be successful. An exploit suggests a successful compromise as the result of a vulnerability. 

### Types of Attacks

#### Categories

Security Triad - CIA
    - Confidentiality - Unauthorized reading of data
    - Integrity - Unauthorized modification of data
        - Is the data/resource correct?
    - Availability - Authorized parties can access resources at all authorized times

#### Examples

Masquerading - Pretending to be an authorized User, but are not authorized. 
- This includes pretending to be another authorized user
- Compromises Confidentiality and Integrity

Replay Attack - Duplicate authorized message is sent
- Classic example: Bank Transaction
- Breach of integrity

Man-in-the-middle (Person-in-the-middle) - MITM  - Intruder is placed in the pathway of message passing
- Authorized sending and reciever, but somewhere in the middle, someone is in the path of traffic
- This allows for
    - Eavesdropping
    - Message modification
    - Message injection
    - Message removal (Dropping)
    - Classic spy movie attacks  (Very popular to protray)

Session Hijacking - Authorized/active session is taken over
    - bypass authentication

Privilege Escalation - Really a goal and not necessarily an attack. Get Higher privileges than authorized in order to acess other resources

Denial of Service (DoS) - Affects the availability
- Slowing down services to completely shutting down of a service
- Technical attacks - Overwhelming/shutting down services using a program
- Non-technical attacks - Unplug the computer


# December 1, 2021

## Security Measures

This is incredibly broad

### Levels of Secury

- Not priority/importance
- All are equally dangerous
- End Result of an attack is the thing we should measure

Five Levels: 
- Human - Any human related access to a computer system
    - Anyone granted permissions to access data/services
    - Anyone with physical access
    - Anyone with knowledge of system
- Physical - Protection of physical equipment
- Network - Remote access to a computing resource. Data and communication protocols. 
    - Someone can target stored data
    - They can also attack the communication protocol
- Operating System (OS) - Kernel level process
- Applications - User level processes

Access points into a computer system. 

#### Human Issues

- ID10T
- Layer 8 error
- Every person who has authorized access is a target
- Social Engineering
    - An attacker fools a person using social/behavioral skills
- Phishing Attack - Trick a user into giving up some type of information
    - Often email based
    - Spear phishing = more targetted. (Chad wishes it was called Phly Phishing). 

#### Program Threats

Programs as the threat

Programs as the vulnerability

Zero-Day Threat
    - Original: The first day a vulnerability wad discovered
    - Modern: An exploit is availabile before the patch

Malware - Malicious Software. Malicious Hardware. 

Principle of Least Privilege - Program to work at the lowest privilege needed to perform an operation
    - OS should work at user mode as much as possible. 
    - Running everything as admin "works"

#### Categories of Malware

Trojan Horse - Appears as one thing, but is actually another
    - Program looks legitimate but has some malicious property/capability. 

Spyware
    - Adware
    - Keystroke logger
    - websites visited
    - Scan Files
    - User computing resources

Ransomware - Attacker encrypts your data 
    - Victims almost always end up paying the attacker

Trap Door/ Back Door
    - Undocumented way into a system. 
    - Benign way that these things happen (no ill will)
        - Someone designs a system with an authentication bypass to speed up deployment but forget to remove it. 
            - Software developer implemented for convenience
            - Default remote system administration credentials. 
    - Malicious way that these things happen
        - System is compromised
        - Create a new entry point for later access

Logic Bomb
    - Malware that sits dormant until some condition is met
    - COndition
        - Specific date/time
        - Some specific value is met
        - Reset code time has expired
Detection of backdoors and logic bombs
    - Software testing doesn't work - not documented features
    - Source code analysis
        - Any submitted code could be reviewed by others
        - Used libraries are usually not checked
    - Beyond Source code
        - What if malware was in the compiler?
        - Analyze executables
            - It's much easier to verify and protect your system/compilers/etc

Code Injection
    - Malware takes advantage of vulnerability in legitimate software
    - Vulnerability actually makes the execution of maleware possible
    - Two Types
        - SQL Injection
        - Stack Smashing
            - Aka. Buffer overflow, Buffer overrun
            - Relates to protecting buffer boundaries. 
            - Stack frame/activation record
            - Dummy opcodes - noop sled. - No operation instructions
            - Shellcode - Codet hat launches a command shell
            - Payload - input with dummy opcodes, shellcode and return address
    1996 - Phrack magizine
        - Smashing the Stack for Fun and Profit - Aleph One (Elias Levy)
    
    Script Kiddie - Derogatory term. Person who lacks technical skills, but attacks with pre-made tools. Effects are the same

    Exploit - (noun) a tool used to perform an exploit (verb). Ex. Download an exploit. 

#### Worms and Viruses
 
How does it spread?

Virus - Spreads from one program to another on a single system. 
    - Needs human action to infect

Worm - Spread through a network. Does not ned human action. 

#### Categories of Infuction

File - virus appends itself to a file. When the file is executed it spreads to other files. 

Boot/Boot sector virus - Livers in the boot sector. This runs before anything, including the OS. 
    - Evade all OS-level detection systems, anti-virus software
    - This only lives in memory. Does not exist in the filesystem. 

Macro - High level language, usually tied to some application
    - Execute when an infected document is processed (Excel)

Rootkit - result of an infection/capability of infection
    - Compromise happened with full administrative rights
    - If this happens - Nothing on the system can be trusted anymore

Polymorphic - virus that modifies itself. Changes instructions to look different. Change its signature
    Signature - byte sequence that can uniquely identify maleware

Encrypted - Encrypt the malware, it changes form and changes signature. How do we encrypt and decrypt?
    - Need a routine to do the encryption and decryuption

#### System and Network threats

No human interaction to spread

This is quick

Zombie - A system that has been compromised in a network
    aka. Bot
    Zombies can be controlled by a single attacker (person, organization, system)
    Protects the attacker

Attacking Network Traffic
    Sniffing - Eavesdropping. Passive attack. In wireless networks this is very easy.
    Masquerading and MITM -
    Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) - network-based DoS attack. The source is really many zombie systems
    Port Scanning - Reconnaissance tool. Look for information that might be valuable for an attack. Looking for network-based vulnerabilities. 
        - Identify services, OS
        - 1989 - Dan Farmer.
        - 1993 - Improving the security of your site by breaking into it
        - Security administrators tool for analyzng networks - SATAN
        - Security Administrators integrated network tool - SAINT
        - Now every system admin should be port scanning their network

#### Cryptography

One of the most important tools for security
    - Marriam-Webster: Secret writing. Enciphering and deciphering messages in secret code
    - NIST (U.S. govt): The discipline that embodies the principles, means, and methods for the transformation of data in order to hide their semantic content, prevent their unauthorized use, or prevent their undetected modification.

Cryptography is very very broad field of study. We're jsut looking at applications that tie to security. 

Definitions
    - Plain Text (PT) - Human/computer readable data. Book uses P
    - Cipher Text (CT) - encrypted PT. Human/computer readable data. Book uses C
    - Encryption - the process of converting from PT to CT
    - Decryption - the process of converting from CT to PT
    - Key - input to the encryption/decryption algorithm
        - E: K -> (PT -> CT), k(PT,CT)
        - D: K -> (CT -> PT), K(CT,PT)
    Cipher - Algorithm to do encryption/decryption

Key length
    - Long key length is more secure
    - measured in bits
    - Search space - possible keys

Brute Force Attack
    - Trying every possible key to crack encryption

Symmetric Encryption
    - Same key is used for encyprtion and decryuption
    - Common algorithm
        - Digital Encryption Standard (DES)
            - 1975 by NIST
            - 56-bit key size
            - Operates on 64-bits of input data
            - Block cipher - works on blocks of data
            - Issues - key size is small
                - 1998 - EFF builds a des cracker
                - 90 billion keys per second
                - 2^56 possible keys = 72,057,594,037,927,936 or approximately 72 quadrillion
                72 quad / 90,000,000,000 = 800,640 seconds
                800,640 / 60 = 13,344 minutes
                13,344 min / 60 = 222.4 hours
                222.4 /24 = 9.3 days
                    - Time to check every possible key. Everage time to crack is 9.3 / 2 = 4.65 days
        - Triple DES (3DES)
            - DES three times
            - 168-bit key space -> 3 times the number of bits, but not 3 times the number of keys (since it is the combination of three 56bit keys)
                - Encrypt > Decrypt > Encrypt
        - Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) 
            - Adopted in 2001
            - 128-bit blocks (it is also a block cipher)
            - Varying key sizes: 128,192, 256 bit key length options
        - Block Cipher
            - Fine for many cases
            - Sending real-time data with this is really slow
        - Stream Cipher 
            - Encrypt one bit at a time
            - Stream of bits as the cipher output 10100011110101101
                - XOR the cipher with the PT -> CT
            - AES has multiple modes
                - 3 modes are stream ciphers. AES-CTR

    - Big Question
        - You should have keys, I should have keys, but nobody else should have keys. How do we get keys to each other?
        - Key Exchange?
            - Basis for next type of encryption

Asymmetric Encryption
    - Keys come as a pair
        - Private key - kept secret by one person
        - Public Key - anyone can have this key

    - Common Ciphers
        - Diffie-Hellman
            - Use this to create a shared symmetric key
            - Created in 1976
            - Weakness
                - No authenticatoin
                - MITM attack can happen
        - Rivest Shamir Adelman (RSA)
            - 1978
            - Kpub,Kpri keys
            - One encrypts (kpriv) and the other decrypts (kpub)
            - Key sizes
                - 512, 1024, 2048 bit key sizes
                - Keys are pairs of prime numbers (space isnt as large as suggested by key size as they have to be prime numbers)
    - vs. symmetric
        - Asymmetric is very slow
        - Key distribution is possible
        - Authentication is possible
        - End result
            - Use Asymmetric to do authentication of parties
            - Use Asymmetric share a symmetric key for communication


Hash FUnctions
    - One way encryption, message digest, hash value
    - Any size input (PT) and we create a fixed size output (CT)
    - It is not possible to generate a PT to match a known CT

Digital Signatures
    - Same idea of a real-life signature
    - Hash and asymmetric encryption to create a digital signature
    - Hash ensures the document hasn't changed
    - Asymmetric encryption show who did the signing

Key distribution one more
    - Digital Certificate
        - Bind and Identify and a public key
    - Signed by a trusted authority. 


















TED - A beginners guide to quantum computing
https://www.ted.com/talks/shohini_ghose_a_beginner_s_guide_to_quantum_computing?language=en 

https://whatis.techtarget.com/definition/classical-computing

https://itsupportguys.com/it-blog/understanding-bits-and-bytes/

https://becominghuman.ai/quantum-superposition-and-what-that-means-to-quantum-computation-3fbb5a711b9a

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/quantum/tutorial-qdk-explore-entanglement

https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbestechcouncil/2021/07/30/four-ways-quantum-computing-could-change-the-world/?sh=6383c1204602

https://www.pluralsight.com/resource-center/guides/quantum-computing-helping-business

https://spectrum.ieee.org/an-optimists-view-of-the-4-challenges-to-quantum-computing

https://medium.com/the-quantum-authority/ice-ice-baby-why-quantum-computers-have-to-be-cold-3a7f777d9728

https://medium.com/@markus.c.braun/a-brief-history-of-quantum-computing-a5babea5d0bd






















