## September 17, 2020

---

## Events

Example: Let E be the event that a student is an engineer. Let B be the event that a student has books in her backpack. Let C be the event that a student is enrolled in STAT 3000. Suppose that the probability that a student:

* Has books in her backpack AND is an engineer AND is enrolled in stat 3000 is 0.1

* Has books in her backpack AND is not an engineer AND is enrolled in STAT 3000 is 0.03

* Has no books in her backpack and is an engineer and is enrolled in STAT 3000 is 0.1

* Has no books in her backpack and is not an engineer and is enrolled in Stat 3000 is 0.08

P(B ^ E ^ C) = 0.1

P(B ^ E' ^ C) = 0.03

P (B' ^ E ^ C) = 0.1

P(B' ^ E' ^ C) = 0.08

If you have a bunch of events that are mutually exclusive, you can add them together to get probability of outcome that one occurs.

## Probability Rules

P(Empty Set) = 0

P(A) = a-P(A') (Sometimes known as the compliment rule)

P(A) <= 1

P(A U B) = P(A) + P(B) 0 P(A ^ B)

Example: Data collected on gender and eye color among students showed that 45% of students were female, 36% had blue eyes, and 18% o the students were female and had blue eyes. A student is randomly selected. Let F denote the event that the selected individual is female and let B denote the event that the student has blue eyes.


P(F) = .45

P(B) = .36

P(F ^ B) = .18

a) What is F'? P(F') = 1 - P(F) -> 1 - .45 = .55

b) What is F U B? P(F U B) = P(F) + P(B) - P(F ^ B) -> .45 + .36 - .18 = 0.63

c) What is F' ^ B? P(F' ^ B) = A person who is not female and has blue eyes.

P(B) - P(F ^ B) = .36 - .18 = .18

Example: The administrators at a University examine their applicant records. They found that 75% of applicants were from in-state and 67% of applicants were accepted to the university. 23% of applicants took the entrance exam, were from in-state and were admitted to the uniservirty. Furthermore, 14% of the applicants were from out-of-state and were admitted to the university.

P(L) = .75

P(A) - .67

P(L ^ A ^ E) = .23

p(L' ^ A) = .14

1) What percentage of applicants were from out-of-state?

P(L') 1 - .75 = .25 = 25% werer from out of state

2) What's the probability that a student was out of state or admitted?

P(L' U A) -> P(L') + P(A) - P(A ^ L') -> .25 + .67 -.14 = .78

3) What's the probability that a student was admitted and from out of state or a student was admitted from in-state?

P((A ^ L') U (A ^ L)) = P(A ^ L') + P(A ^ L) - 0 (No intersection). = .67


4) What percentage of applicants were from in-state and were admitted to the university but did not take the entrance exam?

P(L ^ A ^ E') = P(A) - P(L' ^ A) - P(E ^ L ^ A) -> .67 - .14 - .23 = .30


Example: A grocer's wares are 40% vegetables and the rest are fruits. 20% of his goods are organic vegetables and 12% are local fruits, and not oraganic. If 4% of his goods are not local, vegetables that are not organic, what perentage of his wares are local and not organic?

P(V) = .4

P(F) or P(V') = .6

P(O ^ V) = .2

P(L ^ V' ^ O') = .12

P(L' ^ V ^ O') = .04

What percentage of his wares are local and not organic?

P(L ^ O') = P(L ^ V' ^ O') + P(L ^ O' ^ V) = .28
