## September 15, 2020

---

### Event: A collection of outcomes (That is, a subset) of the sample space.

* Subset without bar under it means its smaller than sample space. With a bar means it is less or equal.

### Language of Probability

3 Coyotoes exist and its possible for them to be healthy or diseased.

##### Only one is diseased.

A = {DHH, HDH, HHD}

##### All diseased or none diseased

B = {DDD, HHH}

##### All are healthy

C = {HHH}

### Venn Diagram

Used to illustrate relationships between events by drawing potentially overlapping circles within a box.

### Complement

The complement of event A Consists of all outcomes in Sample space that are not A.

Example:

Given the following events:

##### Exactly one Coyote is diseased

A' = { DDD, DDH, DHD, HDD, HHH }

##### All three coyotes are classified the same way

B' = { DDH, DHD, HDD, HHD, HDH, DHH }

##### All coyotes are healthy

C' = { DDD, DDH, DHD, HDD, DHH, HDH, HHD }


### Union

The **union** of Events A and B (A U B), consists of all outcomes in either A or B or both

Example:

A U B = { DHH, HDH, HHD, HHH, DDD}

B U C = { HHH, DDD}

### Intersection

Intersections of events A and be, (A ^ B) consists of all outcomes in both A and B.

Example:

A ^ B (Exactly on coyote is diseased AND they are all classified the same way). A ^ B = { }

B ^ C (All classified the same way AND all are classified as healthy). B ^ C = { HHH }

### Event Combinations

B' = {DHH, HDH, HHD, HDD, DHD, DDH}

B ^ C = { HHH }

(A U B)' U C = {DHH, HDH, HHD, DDH, HHH}

A ^ C = { }

### Mutually Exclusive Events

No intersection between events (Equal an empty set)


### Axiom

A mathematical statement that is accepted without proof.

### Axioms of Probability

* For any event A, 0 <= P(A) (Never negative)

* P(s) = 1

* If A_1, A_2, A_3, ... is an infinte collection of disjoint events, then P(A_1 U A_2 U A3 U ...) = sum of P(A_i)
