## September 22, 2020

---

## Conditional Probability

Example: A pet store randomly chooses an animal to be its mascot. Let A = 'the pet is a dog' and B='the pet is brown'. Find the indicated probabilities:

| |Brown|Not Brown|Total|
|-|-|-|-|
|Dog|6|3|9|
|Not dog|8|13|21|
|Total|14|16|30|

1) The pet is brown and a dog

P(A n B) 6/30 = .2

2) The pet is brown or a dog

P(AUB) = 17/30 = 0.567

3) The pet is not a dog

P(A') = 21/30 = .7

4) The pet is a dog given that it is brown.

P(A given B) 6/14 = .429
* This is written as P(A|B)
* Can also be looked at as P(A n B)/P(B) = (6/30)/(14/30)  = 6/14 = .429


**probability tree** is a diagram for working with conditional probabilities. Most helpful when GIVEN conditional probabilities.


## Probability of Intersection

With basic algebra, we can use the formula for conditional probability to find a formula for the probability of event intersections:

P(A|B) = P(A n B)/P(B)  --> P(A n B) = P(A|B)* P(B) --> P(A n B n C) = P(A) * P(B|A) * P(B) * P(C|A n B)

#### Example:

Four cards are chosen from a desk (52 cards) without replacement. What is the probability that all four cards are hearts (there are 13 hearts)? What is the probability that all four cards are from different suits? (There are 4 suits of 13 cards each).

H_i: The ith card is a heart card

P(H_1 n H_2 n H_3 n H_3) = P(H_1)* P(H_2|H_1), etc

P(H_1) = 13/52

P(H_2) = 12/51

P(H_3) = 11/50

P(H_4) = 10/49

All of these multiplied together .003

From different suits:


52/52 * 39/51 * 26/50 * 13/49 = 0.015


#### Example:

A store sells three bands of running Shoes. All are sold in 'trail' and 'regular' models. 45% of the shoes in the store are brand A shoes and 30% are brand B shoes and the rest are from brand C. Additionally, 12% of brand shoes are trail shoes, 75% of brand B shoes are trail shoes, and 30% of brand C shoes are trail shoes.

T = trail shoes

P(T|A) = .12

P(T|B) = .75

P(T|C) = .3

P(A) = .45

P(B) = .3

P(C) = .25

What is the probability that a randomly chosen shoe is from brand A and is a trail shoe?

P(A n T) = P(T|A) * P(A) = .12(45) = .054

What is the probability that a randomly chosen shoe is from brand C and not a trail shoe?

P(C n T') = P(T'|C) * P(C)

.7(.25) = 0.175


## Independence

Sometimes conditioning doesn't affect the probability of an event.

Example: If we toss a coin twice, what is the probability that the second toss results in heads if the first toss was heads?
P(H_1 | H_2)

If outcome of one event does not have an impact on other events, we say they are independent.

Formula for independence: P(A | B ) = P(A)

## The Law of Total Probability

Let A_1, A_2, ..., A_k be mutually exclusive events such that A1 U A2 U ... U AK = S. Then for any other event B:

p(B) = sum of P(B n A_i) = sum of P(B | A_i)P(A_i) from i -> k
