# September 1, 2021

FSM = Finite State Machine

DFA = __ Finite Automa

## Automa Theory: 

States are usually denoted at q_x

Three States: 

1) q_0 Initial state of the world on(A,T), on (B, T), clear(A), clear(B). Known as the start state. 

q_0 -> put_on(A, B) -> q_1

q_1 -> put_on (A, T) -> q_0 Back to initial state

2) q_1. on (A, B), on(B, T), clear(A). 

q_0 -> put_on(B, A) -> q_2 

q_2 -> put_on(B, T) -> q_0 Back to initial state. 

3) q_2 on(B, A), on(A, T), clear(A)

q_1 and q_2 are final states. 

**Final State**: It has succeeded in processing __ ? 

We designate which states are final states. 

Input 1: puton(A,B); puton(A, T);

Input 2: puton(A,B); 

Input 2: puton(A,B); puton(A,T); puton(B, A);

Machine accounts for all machines. If sequence does not move from a start state to a final state, it is considered to NOT be art of the Language of the machine ( L(M) ). 


## Knowledge Extraction

puton(A, B) is denoted as *a*

puton(A, T) is denoted as *b*

puton(B, A) is denoted as *c* 

puton(B, T) is denoted as *d*

set of states (Q) = {q_0, q_1, q_2}

M is a DFA

if M = (Q, Sigma, delta, q_0, F) -> 5-tuple

Q is a finite set of states, Q 1= empty state. 

Sigma = is an alphabet. Reminder. Alphabet = set of symbols

Delta = transition function (change)

q_0 = initial state -> q_0 exists in Q. 

F = Is a finite set final States. F is a subset of Q.
- If F = empty set then L(M) = empty set. Its not prohibitted, but not helpful. 

--- 

delta: Q x Sigma (range) -> Q (domain)

--- 

DFA has what you can see as a Graph of states.

Input tape has a list of strings reprepsenting sequences (a, b, c, etc). 

This graph of states has access to the delta table (state changes). 


---

1) Delta* (q, sigma) = q

2) Delta* (q, xa) = delta(Delta* (q, x), a)


Delta* = A way to deal __


If and only if x exists in (L(M)) -> Delta*(q_0, x) exists in F





