## September 10, 2020

---

### Median

The pth **percentile** is the value, T, such that p% of the data are smaller than T

Middle number. If two middle numbers, find the mean of those two.


### Lower Quartile

25th percentile

### Upper Quartile

75th percentile

### Interquartile Range (IQR)

Difference betweent he upper and lower quartiles

IRQ = upper quartile - lower quartile

### Boxplot

A graphic composed of a box and 'whiskers' representing the minimum, lower quartile, median, upper quartile and maximum of the data.

Great for comparison

Dots represent outliers

### Outlier

1.5 IQR below LQ or above UQ

### Summary for Two Variables

To compare a numeric variable across categories:
* Numeric Summary: Use summaries (mean, variance, etc) for each category
* Graphical summary: side-by-side boxplots

To compare two numeric variables
* Numeric summary: correlation
* Graphical summary: Scatterplot

#### Scatterplot

A graphical summary for numeric, bivariate data in which each point represents measurements on the subjects

##### Explanatory variable:

The independent variable x

##### Response variable:

The dependent variable y

Scattterplots are often set up in a way where x intended to get a response from y.

If one variable in a scatterplot says something about the other variable, we say they are **associated**

#### Correlation

Describes the strength and direction of the relationship between two numeric variables.

#### r

We use the sample statistic r, to estimate the correlation from data. r is the sample "correlation coefficient".

Always lies between -1 and 1.

r = 1 corresponds to perfect positive correlation

r = -1 corresponds to perfect negative correlation

r = 0 signifies no correlation.

r can only be used to measure linear association

Caution: Correlation is not causation.

#### Probabability

Is a measure of the likelihood of observing a particular outcome of a random process

##### Frequentist View of Probability

If you want to find the chance of something that will happen, repeat the process several times and find the proportion of times it happened.

##### Clasical view

Only relevant if all outcomes are equally likely.

Outcome probability is determined by 'number of outcomes of probability / all outcomes'
