## September 25, 2020

--

## Probability: Baye's Theorem and Counting

### Example:

For a particular AIDS screen marketed for home use, if a subject has AIDS, this test will yield a positive result 99.7% of the time and the probability that the screen is negative if the subject does not have AIDS is 99.1%. AIDS prevalence in UTAH is about 9 cases were 10,000 residents. What is the probability that a randomly selected Utahan from whom this screen is positive actually has AIDS?

A: AIDS

T: Positive

P(T|A) = .977

P(T'|A') =.991

P(A) = .0009

What is P(A|T) ?


## Bayes' Theorem

### Example

A store sells three brands of running shoes. All are sold in 'trail' and 'regular' models. 45% of the shoes in the store are brand A shoes and 30% are brand B shoes and the rest are from brand C. Additionally, 12% of brand A shoes are trail shoes, 75% of brand B shoes are trail shoes, and 30% of brand C shoes are trail shoes.

A, B, C denote brand

T: trail shoes

## Counting Techniques

**Product Rule**: If an experiment takes place in K stages, where at the ith stage there are n_i --

### Example

USU used to assign email usernames as "sl___" where the blanks were filled by letters or numerals.

1) Assume the first blank must be filled by a numeral and the other two by letters, how many usernames can be created?

10 * 26 * 26 = 6760

2) Supposet he three blanks could be any numeral or letter, but with no repetitions (without replacement) (excluding the initial s and l). How many usernames are possible?

36 * 35 * 34 = 42840

3) If all three blanks can be any numeral or letter, how many usernames can be created?

36 * 36 * 36 = 36^3 = 46656


Given a set of n distict objects, how many ways are there to choose a subjset of k objects?

Example: in a simple lottery game, a player picks 3 distinct numbers between 1 and 5 inclusive. How many ways are there to do this?

With replacement, order matters: 111, 112, 121

With replacement, order doesnt matter: 111, 112, 113

Without replacement order matters: 123, 132, 231

n = 5 k = 3

Formulas more specific than the multiplication rule can be used for counting if we distinguish between cases where items are chosen with or without replacement and between cases where order does or doesnt matter:

**Permutations** and **combintations** are ways to arrange objects chosen without replacement


## Permutations:

A permutation consists of k ordered or distinguishable objects chosen from n total objects.

P(^n)(_k) = n!/(n-k)!

Example: How many 6 character (letter or number) license plat numbers are possible if there are no repeats?

n = 36 k = 6

36 nPr 6 = 1402410240

36! / 30!

## Combinations

When order doesnt matter.

C(^n)(_k) = (n k) = n!/(n-k)!k!
