October 13, 2020

---

## Expected Value and Variance of Combinations

Try this: A child fishes in a pond that is stocked with fish. The mean length of a fish in the pond is 10 inches with a standard deviation of 2.5". The child catches 8 fish. What are the expected value and variance of the mean length of the fish?

X_i = length of fish

E(X_i) = 10"

SD(X_i) = 2.5"

T = 1/8 sum(i = 1 -> 8)X_i

E(T) = E(1/8 sum(i = 1 -> 8)X_i) = 1/8 sum(i = 1 -> 8) E(X_i) = 1/8 sum(i = 1 -> 8) 10" = 10

Var(T) = Var(1/8 sum(i = 1 -> 8)X_i) = 1/64  sum(i = 1 -> 8) Var(X_i)


## Families of Distribution?

What do these have in common?

1) Suppose a STAT 3000 student is randomly selected. Whether or not the student has brown eyes is recorded:

X =
* 1 browse eyes
* 0 Otherwise

success = thing of interest is observed

2) Toss a coin and record whether the result is heads.

Y =
* 1 heads
* 0 Otherwise

A **Bernoulli Random Variable** is one whose only possible values are 0 and 1.

**Parameter** of a distribution: A quanitity that can be assigned any of a number of possible values that ecah determine a different probability distribution.

A **family of distributions**: The collection of probability distributions for different values of the Parameter

## Discrete Families of Random Variables

### Binomial

What do these have in common?

* The number of wins in 25 coin tosses.
* The number of females in the 100 births.
* The number of wins in 10 games of roulette
* The number of correct guesses in a 12 prompt multiple choice quiz

Answer:
* There are only two outcomes
* Successive trials are independent
* Fixed number of trials (n)
* P(success) = constant

A Binomial is a Bernoulli random variable if n = 1

**Binomial Experiment**
1) The experiment consists of n trials where n is Fixed

2) Each trial results in success or failure

3) Trials are independent

4) The probability of success, p is the same for each trial.


A **binomial r.v.** counts the number of succsses in a binomial experiment.

X~Bin(n,p)

#### Example

Q: If X~Bin(n,p) what is the probability mass function of X?

1) What values are possible for X?
X = 0, 1, 2, ... n

2) How likely are these values?

If we had 25 attempts and had 8 successes:
P(X = 8) = P^8(1-p)^17 (25 comb 8)

P(X = x) = (n comb x) P^x(1-p)^(n-x)

E(x) = np

Var(X) = np(1-p)

#### Example 2

In a certain family with 5 children, the probabilty that a child has blue eyes is 0.25. Let X count the number of blue-eyed children in the family.

1) Verify that X has a binomial distribution:
* Fixed number of trials: 5 (Pass)
* Trials are independent: (Pass)
* P(success) is constant: p = 0.25 (Pass)
* Each trial results in success or failure (two outcomes) (Pass)

2) What is the probability that exactly 3 of the children have blue eyes?

P(X = 3) = (5 comb 3) p^3(1-p)^(5-3) -> (5 comb 3)(.25)^3(.75)^2

3) What is the probability that at least 1 of the children has blue eyes?

P(X >= 1) = P(X=1)+ P(X=2)+...+P(X=5) = 1 - P(X = 0) = 0.763 (Complement rule)

4) How many blue eyed children would we expect?

E(X) = np = 5(.25) = 1.25

#### Example 3

Every American football game starts with a coin toss. [Team captains] come to the center of the field, where the referee holds a coin. ... One player from the visiting team calls heads or tails.

At one point in 2016, the New England Patriots had won 19/25 coin tosses.

What is the probability of this?

P(X=19) = (25 comb 19) * .5^19 * .5^(6) = .005

#### Example 4

The College Board reports that 2% of the 2 million high school students who take the sAT each year receive accomodations for disabilities. Consider a random sample of 25 students who have recently taken the test. Let X count the number of students in the sample who received accommodations.

Is X a binomial random variable?

1) Fixed # of trials (Pass)

2) Succes or failure (Pass)

### Poisson

A **Poisson random variable** counts the number of independent, rare events occurring within a specified unit of time or space.

X~Poisson(Mu)

P(X = x) = (mu^x * e^-(mu))/x!

Possible X values: x = 0, 1, ...

E(X) = mu
Var(X) = mu

#### Example 1:

What is the probability of at least 8 cases of leukemia occurring randomly in Woburn given that the expected number is 3.85?

X = # of cases of leukemia -> X~Poisson(3.85)

P(x = 8) = (3.85^8 * e^(-3.85))/8! = 0.025

P(X >= 8) = 1 - P(X < 8) = 1 - [P(X=0) + P(X=1)+...P(X=7) = 1 - poissoncdf(3.85,7) = 0.0437
### Geometric
