## September 16, 2020

---

### HTTP Requests

#### GET

Requests a representation of the specified resource. Requests using GET should only retrieve data.

This is the only request type you're required to support in Assignment 1

#### POST

Replaces al current representations of the target resources with the request payload

#### PUT

Replaces all current representations of the target resource with the request payload

#### DELETE

Removes the specified resource

#### HEAD

Asks for a response Identical to that of a GET request but without the response body

#### OPTIONS

Asks the server what communication options it supports


### HTTP Response Codes

- 1xx: Informational - 100 Continue, 101 Switching Protocol
- 2xx: Success - 200 OK, 201 Created, 204 No Content
- 3xx: Redirection - 301 Moved Permanently, 307 Temporary Redirect
- 4xx: Client Errors - 400 back request, 401 Unauthorized, 403 Forbidden
- 5xx: Server Errors - 500 Internal Server Error, 501 Not Implemented, 503 Service Unavailable


### Headers

#### Server

Server contains information about the software used by the origin server to handle the request.

#### Date

Identifies when the request was made.

#### Connection

The connection general header controls weather or not the network connection stays open after the current transaction finishes.

#### Cache-Control

General header field to specify directives for caching mechanisms in both requests and responses.

#### Content-Length

This general header indicates the size, in bytes, of the payload sent to the recipient. Non header-only responses from the server use it to tell the browser how much data to expect.

#### Accept-Encoding

The accept-encoding request allows for gzip, compressing, etc.

#### Cookie

Contains stored HTTP cookies previously sent by the server

Cookies must be sent as one line of text, with no newline characters. This header takes a list of name=value pairs. 
