# September 2, 2021

**Miniworld**

**Metadata**: Data about data. Often used to describe the Schema

## Database Management Systems

**DBMS**: A general-purpose sofware system that facilitates the processes of *defining*, *constructing*, *manipulating*, and *sharing* databases among various users and a pplications. 

**Application program**: Accesses the database by sending queries or requests for data to the DBMS

**Query**: Data retrieval operation (More broadly could update the data).

**Transaction**: Encapsulates a sequence of updates that the user either runs to completion (commits) or makes no changes (rollback), i.e., an all-or-none basis. 

In a broad sense, DBMS is middleware that sits between you and your data, as it is used to handle requests and manage data. 

#### Function of DBMS: 

1) Providers persistent, shared storage

- Objects live beyond program execution
- Shared by multiple applications
	- ACID (Atomicity, consistency isolation, durability) properties
	- Common backup and recovery
	- Integrity constraints
- DBMS reduces redundancy in development and maintenance. 

2) Provides multiple interfaces: query language, APIs, GUIS, 

3) Adds protection

- Protection against software/hardware failure
- Less likely to have security breach. 

#### Pitfalls of using a DBMS

Main costs of using DBMS:
- High initial investment
- May need additional hardware
- Overhead
- Training

When a DBMS may be unnecessary
- Application is simple, well-defined, and not expected to change
- Stringent real-time requirements
- Write access to data by multiple users is not needed. 

#### Classes of DB Users

Database Administrators (DBAs):
- Manages database, DBMS, and related software.
- Authorizes access to the db, coordinating and monitoring. 
- Acquires software and hardware resources as needed. 
- Accountable for problems such as security breaches and poor system response time. 

Users: 
- Security for users can be defined with *roles*
- Roles are assigned by DBA

#### Data Models

*Data definition language* (DDL) describes database schemas. 
- Data relationshipos
- Data semantics
- Integrity constraints. 

Database schemas vs instances. 
- Similar to types nad variables in programming lanuages. 

*Schema*: Description of how data is organized and constrained. 

*Instance*: 
- 
-
- 
-
-

*Data manipulation language* (DML) is used for querying and updating database instances. 

*Data model* is a data definition language along with a data manipulation language. 
- Conceptual
- Representational
- Physical

#### Evolution of data Models

Record-based conceptual models

- 1960s: Hierarchical model (e.g. IBM IMS)
- 1970s: Network model (e.g. CA-IDMS)
- 1980s - Current: *Relational model* (e.g., Oracle, Microsoft Access, Microsoft SQLServer, IBM DB2)

Object-based conceptual models: 
- Late 1980s - Current: entity-relationship model
- Late 1980s - Current: Object-oriented model
	- Object-relational 
	
#### NoSQL - Evolution of Data Models

SQL == relational databases

Rise of big data
- 100s TBs- PBs of data
- Too big to fit on disk in one machine
- DBMS resides on cluster of networked computers

NoSQL models: 
- Hierarchical models reinvented
	- Late 1900s - 2000s: XML
	- 2010s - current: Key/value stores (JSON stores)
- Network models
	- 2000s - current: Graph models
- Column store databases (2010s - current)
- Map/reduce support (2010s - current)


#### Special Kinds of Databases

Temporal databases
- Special handling for time
- Few commercial temporal databases

Spatial databases
- Maps, cadastral applicatoins
- Many commercial products (GIS)

Text databases
- Special text search capabilities
- Library collections

Statistical databases
- Census data
- OLAP, data warehousing

Federated, heterogeneous, distributed databases

#### ANSI Three-Schema Architecture

Supports DBMS characteristics of
	- Program-data independence.
	- Support of multiple views of the data
	
Defines DBMS schemas at three levels: 

- Physical
	- How data is stored on disk
	- Data storage structures
	- Access paths to the data

- Logical 
	- How we think the data is organized
	- Conceptual structure
	- Integrity constraints
	
- External (view)
	- What a user sees of the data
	- View of often limited by security


#### Data Independence

Each level is "independent" in the sense that a completely different organization can be used. 

*Physical data independence*: Physical level can change without having to change the logical level. 

*Logical data independence* - Logical level can change without having to change the external level. 
