# September 7, 2021

## Relational Model

E. F. Codd = Father of relational Model. Worked for IBM

Codd suggested that people think of data in terms of tables. 

1982 - First impliemtnation of relational model. late 80s is when relational model DBs started taking off. 

### Criticisms: 

- Too mathimatical (its not)

### Sets

A set is an unordered collection of distinct objects

Examples: 
- {3, 4, a} is a set. 
- {3, 4, a} is the same as {a, 4, 3}
- {4, 4} is *not* a set. 

Set operations include: 
- *Intersection* - {3, 4, a} <int> {b, 4} = 4
- *Union*
- *Difference*

### Domains and Attributes

*Domain* - Is a set of values of some "type"

Positive integers = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5, ... }
Alphanumeric characters = {'a', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'e', ...}

Domains are *atomic*, which is a common DB restriction. 

The following programming types are atomic domains: 
- Integer
- Char
- Float
- Varchar

The following are *composite* domains: 
- struct {a: int, b: char } record_definition

*Attribute*: The name of a domain

### Relations 

*Relation*: Given sets A_1, A_2, ... , A_n, relation *r* is a subset of their Cartesian product

* R is a set of n-tuples (a_1, a_2, ..., a_n) where A_i exists in A_n

#### Example: The < Relation

Let O = {1, 3}, let E = {0, 2}

O x E = {(1,0), (1,2), (3,0), (3,2)}

<(O,E) is the schema

O, E are attributes

{1,3} and {0,2} are domains

<(O,E) = (1,2) as it is the only tuple with a value on the left that is less than the right. 

*Schema*: R(A_1, A_2, ... , A_n) is the relation of *r* where A_i is a domain. 

#### Relations as tables

Each attribute (O and E) are columns

Each Row contains a tuple


### Tuples

*Tuples*: An element *t* of a relation *r* is called a tuple. 

Tuple notation is typically t\[A_i\] but can also be noted in dot notation: t.A_i



### Characteristics of Relations

Tuples in a relation are unordered. 

Attributes in a tuple/relation are ordered For example, the following are NOT the same: 


|--|--|
|Name|Age|
|--|--|
|Pat|1|
|Fred|2|
|Sue|3|
|Bob|4|
|--|--|



|--|--|
|Name|Age|
|--|--|
|1|Pat|
|2|Fred|
|3|Sue|
|4|Bob|
|--|--|

- Values in tuple are atomic (one value per column x row)

### Degree and Cardinality

Cardinality: Number of rows

Degree/arity: Number of columns

### Integrity Constraints

*Integrity Constraint* is a *predicate* that is required to be true of every possible instance of the database schema

*Predicate*: True or false value

Purpose: TO keep the database in a "good" state. 
	- A good state is one that is consistent with the modelled reality

How: Check to see if an update will move to a "bad" state. 

#### Aspects of Integrity Constraints

Are specified at the schema level

Enforcement:
	- Evaluate on update (insert/delete)
	- Must be simple, complex can slow evaluation
	
Remedy for Violation
	- Assumed: Cancel the operation that causes the violation.
	- Perform the operation but inform the user of the violation
	- Trigger additional updates so the violation is corrected. 
	- Execute a user_specified error-Correction routine. 
	
#### Key Constraints

*Superkey*: A superkey of R is a set of attributes K of R such that no two tuples in any valid relation instance r(R) will have the same value for K. 

There is a superkey for all relations

*Candidate key*: A Candidate key of R is a minimal superkey. That is, a superkey K such that removal of any attribute from K results in a set of sttributes that is not a superkey. 

*Primary key*: Is a specified candidate key

*Foreign Key*: Key borrowered from some other relation. 

##### Key Examples

Consider two relation schemas (no keys specified):
	- Customer(ID, Name)
	- Purchase(CustomerID, ISBN, Date)
	
Assumption: No two customers have the same ID
	- Superkeys of Customer: 
		- {ID}
		- {ID, Name}
	- Candidate key of Customer (and also the primary key, since only one)
		- {ID}

Assumption: Customer can buy many books on different days
	- The superkey of Purchases
		{CustomerID, ISBN, Date}
	- Only one candidate key and only one primary key. 
	
	
### Keys, Fact and Fiction

A key is often more than a single attribute
	- Some DB products impose a single-attribute key restriction
	- The belief is that smaller keys are more efficient
	- Detracts from semantics

An attribute in a key can be of any type
	- Some DB products restrict keys to integer or auto-number types
	- Easy for software to check and maintain
	- Detracts from semantics
	
Choosing a key is difficult
	- Time-invariant keys - schema changes over time
		- Assume SSN is a good key, new law makes using SSN illegal
	- Converting after a "wrong choice" can be costly
		- Keys are "shared" as foreign keys in other relations
		
### Entity Integrity

The primary key Attributes P_k = {k_1, ..., k_m} of each relation schema R in S cannot have null values in any typle of r(R). Basically you cannot submit a row of null data

This is because primary keys are used to identify individual tuples

### Domain Constraints

Two roles similar to programming languages
	- *Strong* typing or type-by-name in progamming languages. 
	- Most DBMSs have only a restricted selection of simple, predefined types available. 

A domain creates a separate type

Consider these sample relation schemas.
	- Book(ISBN, Title)
	- Customer(ID, Name) 
	
	Both are reprpesented by integers, but it doesnt make sense to compare the two. So they have their own domains despite both being integers. 
	
### Referential Integrity. 

RI is the "glue" that keeps the database teogther, ensuring the consistency of foreign keys

*Foreign key* is a key in some relation. 
- It points to or references some relation
- Referential integerity says that information that is pointed to MUST exist. 

Example: 
- If a *CustomerID*, e.g 123456, is associated with a *ISBN*, e.g., 100001, in a tuple in the table *Purchases*, a customer with *CustomerID* 123456 and a book with ISBN *100001* MUST exist. 

Official Definition: Let r_1 and r_2 be instances of schemas R_1 and R_2, let K be the primary key for R_1, and let <alpha> be a subset of R_2 that is compatible with K. Then, <alpha> is a foreign key for K if every value for <alpha> in a tuple in r_2 also appears in ___. 


### RI Enforcement

