# September 3, 2021

---

## RAD

### Principles



### Common RAD Techniques

Small teams

Requirements via focus groups, workshops, meetings

Requirements validation via iterated prototypes, use cases

Customer testing of designs as they evolve

Constant integration and testing

Informal reviews and communication

Short iterations

Deferring complicated features

Short timeboxes (Limit the amount of time we work on something. Basically a time limitation)

### Advantages

More accurate requirements

Changing Requirements

Frequent customer feedback

Reduced development time (maybe)

Encourages code reuse

Possible incremental releases

Constant testing promotes quality

Risk mitigation

Greater chance of success

### Disadvantages

Resistance to change

Doesn't handle large systems well

Requires skilled team members

Requires access to scarce resources (customers)

Add overhead

Less managerial control

May lead to sub-optimal design

Unpredictable

### Examples

Agile
- Individuals and interactions over processes and tools
- Working software over comprehensive documentation
- Customer collaboration over constract negotiation
- Responding to change over following a plan

#### Principals
- Our highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software
- Welcome changing requirements, even late in development. Agile processes harness change for the customer's competitive advantage. 
- Deliver working software frequently, from a couple of weeks to a couple of months, with a preference to the shorter timescale
...
- Working software is the primary masure of progress. 
- Agile processes promote sustainable development. The sponsors, developers, and users should be able to maintain a constant pace. 
- Continuous attention to technical excellence and good design enhances agility. 
- Simplicity--theart of maximizing the amount of work not done--is essential
- The best architectures, requirements, and designs emerge from self-organizing teams. 
- At regular intervals, the team reflects on how to become more effective, then tunes and adjusts its behavior accordingly. 


#### Scrum

Roles: 
- Product owner
- Team member
- Scrum master

Terms
- Backlog - The tasks to accomplish
- Sprint - A timeboxed incremental iteration
- Potentially shippable increment (PSI) - The result of a sprint
- Sprint planning meeting - Begins each sprint
- Sprint backlog - The tasks to accomplish in a particular sprint
- Daily scrum - A standup meeting covering
	- What did you do since the last standup?
	- What do you hope to accomplish before the next standup?
	- What obstacles do you see? 
- Sprint review meeting - The product owner reviews the current PSI
- Retrospective meeting - The development team reviews the sprint

Planning Poker 
- Team members assign durations to tasks
- Team members turn over their estimates at the same time to avoid anchoring
- Highest and lowest estimators get a soapbox
- Repeat until consensus
- Write down the task's story points



Who is going to be there
Location
Food
Activities


55

