January 19, 2022

---

## LCD Screens:

LCD screen: picture elements (pixels)
* mirrors content of frame buffer memory

There is meory for every pixel

Frame Buffer: Buffers waht should be displayed on each pixel and rotates through them with each refresh rate cycle. 

## Components of a Coputer: 

Input, Output, CPU, Memory

John Von Neumann is largely responsible for the definition of a computer. 

## Example: Laptop as todays Desktop

Laptops are often used as desktop coputers through the use of docks with periphrials. 

## Under the Covers: 

Input

Output

Memory

Processing
* Datapath
* control

Memory by size:  HDD -> SSD -> SD -> MicroSD -> L2 Cache -> L1 Cache -> Register 

Volatile main memory -> Loses storage at power off. 

## Networks

Another form of I/O

Communication and resource sharing

Local area network (LAN): Ethernet

Wide area network (WAN): the Internet

Wireless network: WiFi, Blueooth

## Memory

RAM = volatile memory

DRAM capacity 64Kb (1980) 

## Inside the Processor

Bunch of transistors inside of CPU. Including L1 and L2 caches, Decoder, Trace Cache, Schedulers, etc. 

Modern CPUs have transistors as small as 7 nanometers. For comparison, a strand of hair is 50,000-100,000nm

## Issues for Modern Computers

Energy/Power consumption has become a huge problem

## Implementation Technology

Relays

Vacuum Tubes

Transisotrs

Integrated Circuits
* Gate-level integration
* Medium Scale Integration (PALs)

Common links?
* A controllable switch

Computers are wires and switches

## Technology Trends

## Chips

Silicon Wafers
* Chip Manufactuers build any copies of the same circuit onto a single wafer
  * Only certain pertentages of the chips will work; thse that work will run at different speeds. The yield decreases as the size of the chips increases and the feature size decreases
* Wafers are processed by automated fabrication lines  
  * To minimize the chance of contaminants ruining a process step, great care is taken to maintain a meticulously clean environment. 

## Bit Level Operations in C

### Operations &, |, ~, ^ Available in C

Apply to any "integral" data type
    * long, int, short, char, unsigned

View arguments as bit vectors

Arguments applied bit-wise

### Examples (Char data type)

~0x41 -> 0xBE
    * ~01000001_2 -> 10111110_2

~0x00 -> 0xFF
  * ~00000000_2 -> 11111111_2

0x69 & 0x55 -> 0x41
  * 01101001_2 & 01010101_2 -> 01000001_2

0x69 | 0x55 -> 0x7D
  * 01101001_2 | 01010101_2 -> 01111101_2

