# January 31, 2022

---

Topics: 

* Von Neumann model of a computer
* Instruction set architecture
* MIPS instruction formats
* Some MIPS instructions

Reading:

* P&H textbook Ch. 2.1-2.2, Ch. 2.5-2.6

---

## The von Neumann Model

Many architectural models for a general-purpose computer have been expllored. 

Most of today's computers based on the model proposed by John von Neumann in the late 1940s

Major Components:  CPU - Main Memory - Input/Output. 

## Instructions and Programs

What are instructions? The words ofa computer's language

Instruction Set: The full vocabulary

Stored Program Concept: The idea that instructions and data of many types can be stored in memory as numbers, leading to the stored program computer
    - Distinct from "application-specific" hardware
    - Distinct from punched tape computers(e.g., looms) where instructions were not stored, but streamed in one at a time
  
## Anatomy of an Instruction

An instruction is a *primitive* operation

Ex: ` add $t0, $t1, $t2`

Instructions specify an operation and its operands (the necessary variables to perform the operation)

Types of operands: immediate, source, and destination

MIPS always take three arguments ^^

add = Operation

$t0 = Destination Operand

$t1, $t2 = Source Operand

`addi $t0, $t1, 1` 1 = Immediate Operand

## Meaning of an Instruction

Operations are abbreviated into opcodes (1-4 letters)

Instructions are specified with a very regular syntax

- First an opcode folloed by arguments

- Usually *but not always* the destination is next, then source

Why this order? Arbitrariliy

## Being the Machine!

Instruction Sequence

- Instrutions are executed sequentially from a list
  - Unless some special instructions alter this flow
- Instructions execute one aftera nother
  - - Therefore, results of all previous instructions have been computed

## Looping

j = jump instruction

Can be used to jump back to some instruction in your assembly steps


# Where are the sintructions stored? 

word size = register size. 

## Intel x86 Evolution: Milestones

8086 - 1978 - 29K Transistors 6-10Mhz

386 1985 - 275K - 16-33MHz

Pentium 2004 - 125M -> 2800-3800

Core i7 2008 - 731M -> 2667-3333

## Compiling Into Assembly

```C

int sum(int x, int y) {
    int t = x+y;
    return t;
}
```

```Assembly
sum:
    push1 %ebp
    mov1 %esp, %ebp
    movl 12(%ebp), %eax
    add1 8(%ebp), %eax
    popl %ebp
    ret
```

%ebp, %esp, %eax = registers

## The Stored-Program Computer

In von Neumann Model

Instructions and data are stored in a cmmon memory ("main memmory")

Sequential semantics. All instructions execute sequentially (or at least appear sequential to the programer)

Key Idea: Memory holds not only data, but coded instructions that make up of a program

## Instruction Set Architecture

Definition: The part o the computer architecture related to programming, including the native data types, instructions, registers, addressing modes, memory architecture, interrupt and exception handling, and external I/O

* An ISA includes a specification of the set of opcodes (machine language), and the native commands implemented by a particular processor. 

### Encoding of instructions raised interesting choices

Tradoffs: performance, compactness, programmability

Complexity
- How many different instructions? What level operations?
  - Level of support for particular software operations: array indexing, procedure calls, "polynomial evalulate", etc.

- Reduced Instruction Set Computer (RISC) philosophy: Simple Instructions, optimized for speed. 

- Uniformity
- - Should different instructions be the same size?
- - Take the same amount of time to execute?
- - Trned favors uniformity -> simplicity, speed, cost/power

It is a mix of Engineering & Art. 

## The Big Picture

Things to note: 
- Memory is distinct from data path
- Registers are in data path
- Program is stored in memory
- Control unit fetches instructions from memory


## MIPS

32 general registers.  

Fetch/Execute loop: 
* Fetch mem[PC]
* PC = PC + 4
* Execute fetched instruction
* repeat!

All registers are named $0 -> $31

All Operands are registers. - This means that if you want to operate on variables, they must be put in memory first. 

### MIPS instruction format

All instructions fit into a single 32-bit word

Every instruction includes various fields:

R- type instruction = 3 register operands (2 source, destination)

I-type: 2 registers, 16=bit constant

J-type: No register operands, 26-bit constant

## MIPS ALU Operations

Sample code operation Add instructoin:

R-type: 000000 01011 01001 0101 00000 100000

ALU = Arithmatic and Logic Unit

section 1 = dictating ALU function
section 2 = rs = 11 (Register 11) source
section 3 = rt = 9 (Register 9) source
section 4 = rd = 10 Register 10 -> Destination
Section 5 = Unused fields are set to '0'
Func = 0x20 dictating an add

Assembly: add $10, $11, $9