### February 10, 2020

---

### Hashes (Cont)

#### Collisions

When two values hash to the same array location

collisions are normally treated as "first come, first serve". The first value that hashes to the location gets it.

We have to find something to do with the second and subsequent values that has to the same location.

##### Ways of handling Collisions

- Rebuild the table (rehash)
- linked list at each location.
  - Known as Spearate Chaining.
- Tree - AVL, B+, etc
  - This solution would be overkill
- Find next Empty
  - Known as Open Addressing
- Try again with new hash function

#### Separate Chaining

Advantages
- Easy to handle collisions

Disadvantages
- Still needs a good hash function ( as lists could be long, otherwise).
- Overhead.

##### Open Addressing / Linear Probing

Hash at requested hash value. If already in use, use the next available hash.

###### Primary Clustering
When there are several used hashes before an open one. This results in the open hash having a higher chance of being filled than others.

Instead of skipping one at a time, we skip by k (size of cluster)

###### Quadratic Probing

Assume the value of the hash function is h = hash(i). Cells are probed according to `h, h + 1^2, h + 2^2, h + 3^2`

Essentially you will store multiple cluster locations and it will try them in order until it finds one that is open.

###### Double Hashing
Have two functions, `Step` gives the increment for hash.
- Define: step(key) = 1 + key % (tablesize -2)
  - Gives personalized increment
- Notice, the location of Step is never used direct as the hash value. It is only an auxilary function.
- If Tablesize and Tablesize -2 are primes, it works better.
- Hash(key) = key % tablesize
- If Hash(key) is full, successfully add increment as specified by step(key)
- h_i(x) = (hash(x) + step(x) * i) % m

Example: Key 38 and tablesize 13. What is the series of locations probed?:
```
step(38) = 6
hash(key) = 12

1i = 38 % 13 = 12
2i = (12 + 6) % 13 = 5
3i = (5 + 6) % 13 = 11
4i = (11 + 6) % 13 = 4
5i = (4 + 6) % 13 = 10
6i = (10 + 6) % 13 = 3
etc
```

Notice how hash values jump around over the range of possible values at what appears to be random.

Each of the prob sequences visits all of the table location in the size of the table and the size of the increment are relatively prime with respect to each other.


#### Hash deletion

Options
- Rehash (Super duper slow, dont do it)
- Shift values (Will cause hash locations to be inaccurate).
- Rehash locally (Not the whole table but just portions)
- Be Lazy (Delete something and indicate that something used to be there but not any longer)
  - When finding, this location will be skipped. When inserting, it will be used.
  - Complexity:


#### Rehash

Once your table has enough items, you can specify to rehash it. This will create a new table and insert each item. For lazy deleted items, they will be ignored and not moved to new table.
