## March 11, 2020

---

Done with priority queues, next up.. Sorting.

## Sorting

#### Internal Sorting

Sorting done totally in main memory

#### External

Uses auxiliary storage (disk) by working on small pieces at a time (mergesort).

#### Stable

Retains original order if keys are the same. In asking if a sort is table, we are asking can it be reasonably coded to be stable. I sort cards by value. Then I sort them by suit. Are they in order by value or suit?

#### Adaptive (Non-Oblivious)

Takes advantage of existing order to do less work

#### Sort by address

Uses indirect addressing so the record (structure) doesn't have to be moved.

#### Inversion

A pair of elements that is out of order. Important in determining a lower bound. The number of pairs of elements is (n ways to pick first, n-1 ways to pick the second, divide by two as order isn't important). On average, only half of these pairs are out of order, so number of inversions is . n^2 swaps of adjacent elements are required.


#### Insertion Sort

Sorts by inserting records into an already sorted portion of the array.

Two groups of keys, sorted and unsorted.

Insert n times, each time have to move about elements to insert.

Complexity: n^2

Stable: Yes

Adaptive:


#### Selection Sort

Find the largest element, put it last

find next largest, put it 2nd last

Find next largest, put it 3rd last

etc

Complexity: n^2

Stable: No (swapping places will break order)

Adaptive: No (Doesnt help becuase you still have to look through everything)


#### Bubble Sort

Compare two values at a time moving larger item to the right. Eventually largest item will be moved to the right and we will have one less item to check each time.

Complexity: n^2

Stable: Yes

Adaptive: No

#### Shell Sort

A subquadratic algorithm whose code is only slightly longer than insertion sort.

We compare items that are x items away from each other and slide them in order of their groups. and then we go through (x / 2) spaces away until x <= 0
