## March 28, 2020

---

### Dynamic Equivalence

If two items are related to each other and the relation goes both ways, we consider it to be symmetric.

Example: Two best friends.

Relation symbols between numbers is called an `infix operator`

`Equivalence Relation` properties:
- reflexive: for any element x, xRx (x is related to x) is true
- symmetric: for any x and y, xRy implies yRx
- transitive: for any x, y, and z, xRy and yRz implies xRz (Determine relation between two elements based on relationship with another element that is related to the element.)

Equivalence class = group of objects with a relationship to each other.


### Disjoint sets

Sets that are separate from each other. For example, if you group people by year they are born, you are partitioning each person into a separate set.

Operations:
- `Union` - two sets together
- `Find` - What what set a value is in

When you union two sets, you get a single new set and destroy the other two.

You can also think of a union as an edge. If you have 3 items, x, y, and z. If x -> y and y -> z, you do not need a union or edge between x -> z as x and z are already 'joined' in that they are in the same group.



Union with Arrays:
- Complexity: O(n)
- Single items dont know who else is in their group
- Find is super easy. Complexity: O(1)

Union with Linked Lists
- Complexity:
- After unioning, you have to visit each item involved in the union and make sure its group is correct.

### Up-Tree Intuition

Initially everybody is separate and in their own group.

Keep track of the address of your parent. Group == head of the parent.

Kids know parents, parents dont know kids. (seems a bit backward to linked lists)

If you try to union two items in the same group, dont :p

If you union two items in different groups, union the roots of both of those items.

complexity depends on size (height) of group but also impacts both find and union. if find is fast union is fast

`Smart Union`
- Always make the root of the larger tree the new rootscuts down the number of nodes at the lower level which avoids a larger complexity for find/union Operations
- Requires tracking height

An item indicates itself as a root by marking its parent as a negative number. YOu can also track its height in this same value.

Positive = has a parents
Negative = root node and number also indicates its height.

Union by Height
```java
public void union(int root1, int root2) {
  if (s[root2] < s[root1]) // root2 is depper as hiegh is stored as negative
  {
    s[root1] = root2; // Make root2 new root
  } else {
    if (s[root1] == s[root2]) {
      s[root1]--; // update height if the same
      s[root2] = root1; // Make root1 new root
    }
  }
}
```

Union by height find analysis

|Number of nodes| Tree Height (worst case)|
|--|--|
|1|1|
|2|2|
|4|3|
|8|4|
|16|5|
|32|6|

### Path Compression
- In doing a find, point everything along the path to the root
- Note, the height that is stored may not be correct anymore.


```java
int find(int i) {
  if (parent[i] == -1) {
    return i;
  }
  parent[i] = find(parent[i]);
  return parent[i]
}
```

Complexity of Smart Union + Path Compression
