## February 12, 2020

---

## Exam 1 Review:

### AVL Trees

If a node is unhappy, check its childrens weight. Select the one with the larger weight. From there, check that child node's children and determine which child is heavier.

Types of Rotation:
- Left Rotation: This occurs when the left child is heavier.
- Right Rotation: This occurs when right child is heavier.
- Double Left Rotation: This occurs when left child is heavier and its right child is heaver than left.
- Double Right Rotation: This occurs when right child is heavier and its left child is heavier than right.

### Splay Trees

Splay Trees always give amortized log(n)

Always moves new nodes to root.

Rotate two at a time.

Orphaned children are not reinserted, they are added as children to the node replaced at root.

Same types of rotations as AVL tree but adds Zig-Zig rotations since you are rotating up two nodes at a time.


## Hashes (cont).

Three States: Empty, active or Deleted.

Load Factor = How full the table is.

Load Factor increases dramatically at 60%.

### Double Hashing
- One has function (this is where I want to go).
- Other function is to determine what your input is.

Basically, if the first one doesnt work, add the input from second function.  


### Efficiency

Hash tables are pretty efficient.... Until they are 70%. Up to this point, there are usually 2-3 probes.

Even if the table is nearly full (leading to occasional long searches) , efficiency is usually still quite high.

### Cuckoo Hashing

Worst-case constant lookup time.

The name derives from the behavior of some species of Cuckoo where the cuckoo chick pushes the other eggs or young out of the nest when it hatches; analogously, inserting a new key into a cuckoo hashing table may push an older key to a different location in the table. 

Two tables are tracked. When a second item wants to take a cell that is full, it kicks the item to the second table.

If an 3rd item tries to take that place, the original item is readded to the list and then the new item is added to the second table.

- Finding is really fast (2n?)

- Inserting is not very fast.
