September 4, 2020

---

### Rule 1: Opposites Attract

### Rule 2:


### Rule 3: Neutral objects always attrack charge objects.

Multiple Neutral objects neither repel nor attract. This comes from the ability of charges within an atom or molecule to move, making the unlike charges closer together than like charges. Ultimately, this means that every atom and molecule can be polarized.


### Example:

Five Styrofoam balls are suspended from insulated threads. Several experiments are performed on the balls; and the following observations are made:

A B C D E

I. Ball A attracts B and A, repels C.

II. Ball D attracts B and D has no effect on E.

III. A negatively charged rod attracts both A and E.

What are the charges, if any, on each ball?:

A and C MUST be charged since they repel each other. Dont know what charge though.

D has no effect on E means that D and E are neutral.

We know a negatively charged rod attracts A. So A is positive, and so C is positive.

A Attracts B, so B is negatively charged

A: Positive

B: Negative

C: Positive

D: Neutral

E: Neutral


### The Dipole: An Important Charge Distribution

An **electric dipole** consists of two point charges of equal magnitude but opposites signs, held a short distance apart


### Conductors, Insulators and Dielectrics


#### Conductors:
Materials in which charge is free to improved

#### Insulators:
Materials in which charge isn't free to move

* Insulators generally contain molecular dipoles, which experience torques and forces in electric fields.
  * Such materials are called **Dielectrics**


### Summary
**Electric Charge** fundamental property of matter.
* Charge comes in two varieties, positive and negatively
* Charge is conserved
* Force between two charges is given by Culomb's Law

**Electric field** describes the force per unit charge at a given point


## Chapter 21: Gauss's Law

Last homework proplem requires Guass's Law. (21.5 will help to solve).

### What you will learn

* To represent electric fields using *electric field lines*
* The concept of *electric flux*

### Electric Field Lines
Provide a convenient and insightful way to represent electric fields.

* A field line is a curve whose direction at each point is direction of the electric field at that point.
* The spacing of field lines describes the magnitude of the field.
  * Where lines are closer, the field is stronger.

#### Charge Distributions

* There are field lines everywhere, so every charge distribution has infinite many field lines.
* In drawing, field-line diagrams, we associate a certain finite number of field lines with a charge of a given magnitude.
* In the diagrams shown, 8 lines are associated with a charge of magnitude *q*.
*Note that field lines of static charge distributions always begin and end on charges, or extend to infinity.


#### Electric Flux
Quantifies the notion "number of field lines crossing a surface."

* The electric flux <greek symbol that looks like a circle with a line vertically through it> through a flat surface in a uniform electric field depends on the field strength E, the surface area A, and the angle (theta) between the field and the normal to the surface.
* Mathematically, the fux is given by

Flux = EAcos(theta) = E<vector> * A<vector>

* Here, A<vector> is a vector whose magnitude is the surface area A and whose orientation is normal to the surface.


Unit for Flux: Neutons/Columbs ??^2

##### Electric Flux with Curved Surfaces and Nonuniform fields

* When the surface is curved or the field is nonuniform, we calculate the flux by dividing the surface into small patches (dA<vector>), so small that each patch is essentially flat and the field is essentially uniform over each.

### Homework 21.21

Magnitude of vector is the same as surface area
