## September 11, 2020

---

Potential Energy - Energy not doing anything yet.

### Electric Potential Difference (Volt)

Describes the energy <ins>per unit charge</ins> involving in moving charge between two points.

Mathematically:

potentially difference is a property of two points

Since the electrostatic field is conservative, it doesn't matter what path is taken between the two points

In a uniform field, the potential difference is -E<vector> * change in <delta>r<vector>

#### Example:

If it takes 35J to move a 18 mC charge from point A to pointB, what's the potential difference *Delta*V_AB

J/C = Volt


#### Example 2:

Fidn the magnitude of the potential difference between two points located 1.8m apart in a uniform 650 N/C electric field, if a line between the points is parallel to the field.


#### Example 3:

An electric field is given by E(vector) = E_0 j(hat) where E_0 is constant. Find the potential as a function of position y, taking V = 0 at y = 0



### Volt vs Electron Volt

* Volt (V) A unit of Potential with base SI units J/C
* Electron Volt (eV) A unit of ENERGY, which we use but can be converted to Joules by:

1eV = | (delta)U | -> | q_0(delta)V | = (-1.6 * 10^-19C)(V) |

### When do you want Potential and When do you want Potential Energy?

* Ask "Does the charge matter?"
  * In all circuits, the charge is every time an electron. Why hold on to a value that is known to be constant? We use Potential and divide out the charge. (Voltage)
  * What if you haver "A Charge". --
