## September 23, 2020

---

## Electric Power

* The Voltage V is energy per unit charge
* Current I is charge per unit time.
* Therefore their product IV is energy per unit time, or **power**
  * P = IV
* For materials that obey Ohm's law, V = IR, this can be expressed in two equivalent ways:
  * P = I^2(R)
  * P = V^2/R

  ---
  * The power is a resistance is dissipated as heat.
  * The other situations, P = IV may represent electrical energy converted to mechanical energy or other forms.

#### Example

A 4.5-W flashlight bulb draws 750 mA

1) At what voltage does it operate?

2) What is its resistance?

Notes:

Ohm's Law: V = IR

P = IV

Question 1:

V = P/I (current) = 4.5/.750 = . 6(ohms)

Question 2:

R = V/I -> 6/.75 = 8(ohms)


#### Example

A gold film in an integrated circuit measures 1.85 (mu)m thick by 0.12 mm wide. It carries a current density of 0.482 MA/m^2

What's the total current?

J = I/A A = (.120 * 10^-3)


## Electrical Safety

* Electric current flowing through the human body is dangerous
  * The table below lists the effects of various currents
    * Much lower currents can be dangerous if applied internally.
  * It takes voltage to drive current through the body.
  * Thus, it's a combination of high voltage and the capability to supply at least tens of milliamperes (mA) that's most dangerous.

  0.5 -2 mA = Threshold of sensation

  10-15 mA = Involuntary muscle constractions: can't let go

  15-100 mA = Severe shock; muscle control lost; breathing difficult

  100-200 mA = Fibrillation of heart; death within minutes


Volts = Jolts, Mills = Kills


## Chapter 25

### Circuits and Symbols

* Electric circuits are portrayed with diagrams using standard symbols, showing interconnections among their components:


emf = electromotive force

Most circuits contain a source of 'electromotive force', or **emf**, a device like a battery that supplies electrical energy

## Resistors in Series

* When circuit components are connected in series, all the current from one component flows into the next component.
  * Thus, **the current through series components is the same**
  * With two resistors in series, the current I results in voltage drops IR_1 and IR_2
    * These sum to the battery emf: %Greek e% = IR_1 + IR_2
    * Thus, I = %greek e%/(R_1 + R_2)
    * The two resistors behave as a single resistor of resistance (R_1 + R_2)
    * In general, resistors in series add
      * R_series = R_1 + R_2 + R_3, ....

## Resistors in Parallel

* When circuit components are connected in parallel, **the same voltage appears across each**.
* With two resistors in parallel, the battery emf drives currents.
  * I_1 = %greek e% / R_1 and I_2 = %greek e% / IR_2
    * Thus, the total current is I = %greek e%(1/R_1 + 1/R_2)
    *

#### Example 1

What resistance should you place in parallel with a 56-k(killaohms) resistor to make an equivalent resistance of 38 k(killaohms)

Note:

1/R_T = 1/R_1 + 1/R_2 -> 1/R_t - 1/R_1 = 1/R_2

R1*RT/(R1 - RT) = R2 -> (56 * 38)/(56-38) = 118.222 Killaohms

## Capacitors in circuits

* Compacitors introduce a time-dependent behavior to circuits.
* Voltage acrros a capacitor is proportional to the charge on the capacitor.
* The charge can't change instantenously, because that would require an infinite current to move a finite amount of charge onto the capacitor in zero time.

* Therefore, the voltage across a capacitor cannot change instantaneously.

## Exam:

How to tell if macroscopic vs Microscopic

Macroscopic: Voltage, Current, Resistance

Microscopic: Resistivity,
