## September 21, 2020

---

### Exam 1

This friday

Note: There is no comprehensive final exam.

Uses Proctorio (ugh)


## Chapter 24

### Electric Current

* **Electric current** is a net flow of electric charge.
  * Quantitatively, current is the rate at which charge crosses a given area.
  * For steady current I = (Delta)Q/(Delta)t (Culombs/Second)
  * When current varies with time, its instananeous value is given by I = dQ/dt
  * The direction of the current corresponds to the direction of the flow of the *positive* charges.
  * The SI unit of current is the ampere(A), equal to 1 C/s.


#### Example 1

A wire carries a current of 1.6 A. How many electrons pass through the wire in 1 seconds?

current = I = 1.6A

I = (Delta)Q/Deltat

1.6 Columbs every second.

1.6C / (1.6 * 10^-19)C = 1.0 * 10^(-19)

### Drift Velocity

* In terms of microscopic properties, the current through a cross-sectional area A is I = nAqv_d

  * n is the number of charge carries per unit volume, each with charge q.
  * v_d is the **drift velocity**, or average velocity of the charge carriers along the direction of the current.
  * Charge carries may be positive or negative, in which case the drift velocity is parallel or antiparallel to the current, respectively.

#### Example 1

A 5.0-A current flows in a copper wire with cross-section area 1.0 mm^2, carried by electrons with number density n = 1.1*10^29m^-3. What is the electron drift velocity?

n = 1.1 * 10^29
A = 1.0 * 10^-6m^2
I = 5.0A
q = 1.6^10^-19

I = nAqv_d

V_d = I/nAq = 5.0/((1.1 * 10^29)(1.0 * 10^-6)(1.6 * 10^-19)) = 2.8 * 10^-4 m/s = 0.28 mm/s

### Current Density

* Current Density (J), is the current per unit area.
  * Unlike current itself, current density is a vector quantity..
  * Current density may vary with position in both direction and mangitude.
  * In general, the current through an area is the flux of the current density over the area.

### Conduction Mechanisms

* Conduction occurs differently in different types of materials:
  * In **metallic conductors**, current is carried by free electrons.
  * In **ionic solutions**, current is carried by positive and negative ions.
  * **Plasmas** are ionized gases, with current carried by electrons and ions.
  * **Semiconductors** involve current carried by both electrons and "holes" -- absences of electrons in a crystal structor
    * Semiconductors are at the heart of modern electronics
    * Their electrical properties can be altered by the controlled addition of small amounts of impurities.
  * **Superconductors** offer zero resistance to the flow of current, and thus can transmit electrical--

#### Conduction in Metals
* A metal contains a "sea" of free electrons:
  * They're confied to the metal but not attached to individual atoms.
  * The electrons move about in random directions with high thermal velecoties.
    * On average, there's no current associated with thermal motion.
  * Applying an electric field superposes a small drift velocity on the electrons' motion.
    * All electrons share the drift velicity, so it results in a current.

### Ohm's Law: A Microscopic View

* Electrons frequently collide with ions in the metal's crystal structure, giving up energy.
  * The result is an average drift velocity proportional to the applied electric field.
  * Therefore the current density is proportional to the field:
    * This expression is the microscopic form of **Ohm's law**
    * Here, %greek symbol% is the conductivity of the material.
    * The reciprocal of conductivity is resistivity: p = 1/%greek symbol%
    * The SI units of p are __ * m

#### Example 2

The electric field is an aluminum wire is 85 mV/m.

Find the current density in the wire.

J = E / p

E = 85 * 10^-3 V/m

85 * 10^-3/(2.65 * 10^-8)  = 3.2 * 10^6

#### Example 3

What electric field is necessary to drive a 7.0 A current through a silver wire 0.95 mm in diameter?

Hint: P silver = 1.59 * 10^-8 __ * m

J = I/A

E = pJ

E = Ip/A

(7.0)(1.69 * 10^-8)/pi(.95*10^-3/2)^2
