## September 30, 2020

---

## The Magnetic Force on a Current

* An electric current consists of moving charges, so a current-carrying conductor experiences a magnetic force.
  * The force actually involves both the magnetic forces on the moving charges, and the electric force associated with charge separation.
  * The force is F = Il x B, where l is a vector describing the length and orientation of a straight conductor. (|F| = i x l x b x sin(theta))


### Example 5

A piece of wire with mass per unit length 84 g/m runs horizontally at right angles to a horizontal magnetic field. A 6.4 A current int he wire results in its being suspended against gravbity. What is the magnetic field strangth?

F = il x b -> I |l| |B| sin(theta) -> |F| = I L B ->



## Origin of Magnetic field

* A magnetic field not only produces forces on moving electric charges, a magnetic field also **arises from amoving electric charge**.
  * The **Biot-Savart law** gives the magnetic field arising from an infinitesimal current elment:
    * dB = Mu_0/4pi * (I dl x r)/r^2
  * The field of a finite current follows by integrating:
    * B = integral of dB which is equal to the integral of Mu_0/4pi * (I dl x r)/r^2
  * Mu_0 = 4pi * 10^-7 N/A2. it is a **permeability constant**

  Note: r-hat is a unit vector from dl toward -

## ehavior of Magnetic Field Lines:
* Magnetic fields originate in moving charge.
* But unlike static electric fields, whose field lines begin and end on cahrges, magnetic field lines dont begin or end on the moving charges and currents that are their source.
  * Instead, magnetic field lines generally encircle the moving charges or currents.
    * Their direction follows from the right-hand rule.
  * In special cases, field lines may extend to infinity in both direction,s but they don't begin or end.

## Using the Biot-Savart Law: A Straight wire

* The field contribution from a current elment of length dl = dx is:

* Integrating the contributions along an infintie line gives:

  * The field falls off as the inverse of the stance y from the wire
  * The field encircles the current.
* Two parallel wires experience forces from each other's magnetic field: F = (Mu_o * I_1 * I_2 * L)/(2(pi)d)
  * Parallel currents attract
  * Antiparallel currents repel.
