# September 02, 2021

Will be starting with PostScript. 

## PostScript

Interpreted language

### Installation

Will use GhostScript

Install ImageMagick

Install Ghostview

### Goals of Language

Often used with prints. 

Printers have very minimal amount of RAM and weak CPU. 

Language can basically print anything

### Stack-based Language

Language has fallen a bit out of favor due to its goal of running on low powered devices is somewhat depricated. 

Four Stacks
- Operand, also referred to as "The Stack"
- Dictionary
- Drawing
- Execution

Stack is a FIFO data structure

Interpreted

### Postfix Notation

Infix: `4 + 3 * 5` operators inbetween

Postfix: `4 3 5 * +` Operations afterward. This notation is used by PostScript

Using Infix requires a knowledge on the machine of precedence and associativity
- Precedence: order of operations. Which operator should be processed first? 
- Associativity: 

Postfix does not use parentheses

With the Postfix example, you create the following stack: 4 (bottom) -> 3 -> 5 -> * which is then processed and multiples the top two items in the stack (5 and 3) -> + which is then processed and adds the top two items to the stack (Now 15, and 4). 

### PostScript Constants and Basic Operations

*Constants*: Dynamic t yping, most primitive t ypes, array composite type

`3`: Push the integer 3 onto the stack
`(hello there)`: Push the string "Hello there onto a stack"
`false`: push the boolean value false onto the stack
`{3}`: Push code onto the stack, but dont evaluate it
`/x`: Push the name x onto the stack
`x`: Evaluate the name x

*Operations on data*: Take values from the stack, do something, push the result
`3 4 add`: op1 op2 add -> 3 + 4

### Stack Operators

`dup`: Duplicate the top value ont he stack
`pop`
`=`
`stack`
`count`
`exch`
`clear`
`n m roll`: Move the top m values and put them into the nth position from the top of the stack
`count -1 roll`: Move the top stack value to the bottom
`n index`: Evaluate name n, copy the nth stack value (from top) onto the stack
`n copy`: Copy the nth item in stack to the top of stack. 
`count copy`: Copy the entire stack on itself

### Flow of Control

if operator: 

```
4 4 eq % Compare two values to see if they are equal
	{3} % If so, Execute something 
if % Evaluate the conditional statement
```

if else:

```
3 4 eq
	{3} % if true
	{4} % if false
ifelse % Execute the false block
```

### Definitions

To define push a name then the value/code and then define: `/x 1 def`

This adds a binding of x to the current dictionary. 

To push the current dictionary onto dictionary stack:: `1 dict begin`

Pop dictionary from dictionary stack: `end`






